---
title: Funeral
date: 2018-05-16T00:00:00.000Z
layout: page-with-sidebar-layout
published: true
---

First, start by choosing a cemetary destination.  
Next, arrange for pre-burial processes. This includes:  
- Ghusl (the ritual body bathing)  
- Kafan (dressing)  
- Janaza Prayer (Islamic Funeral prayer)

The Islamic Center of San Diego has acquired a new Islamic burial ground called:

Al-Rahma Garden at La Vista Memorial Park  
3191 Orange Street  
National City, CA 91950  
Tel: 619-475-7770

Cost for each grave spot is $3300.00. This price includes opening and closing the grave. Cost can be paid in monthly installments for 12 months Max. Markers may be purchased seperately through the park.

Guide lines to establish Islamic Burial  
To establish an Islamic Burial there are two issues to deal with  
    (1) Mortuary service  
-This service includes transportation of the body from the place of death to the mortuary facility where the preparation of the body for burial (washing & Kafan) is done.  
-Also getting the burial permit from the county of SD  
-Then transporting the body to the cemetery for burial & providing the family with the death certificate later.  

ICSD is using Bishop Mortuary For this Service.  
Their phone # is: (619)466-4462, Manager (Gwen)  
Address: 3444 Citrus St., Lemon Grove, CA 91945  

    (2) Cemetery service  
-The family of the deceased have to establish a grave at a cemetery.  
ICSD acquired some graves at a cemetery called  
La Vista Memorial Park in National City  
Al Rahma Garden, ICSD Section.  
3191 Orange St., National City, CA 91950  
Phone: (619)475-7770  

-If the family doesn’t have a reserved grave at any other cemetery and they need a grave at La Vista,  
They need to contact Br Mohamed Kamel-(619)518-1265

Very Important:  
Due to the Corona Virus Issue the number of people to attend a burial is limited to 10 people   & also taking into consideration having face masks & keeping social distancing.  

For complete details please contact:
Brother Mohamed Kamel: 619-518-1265
or
ICSD Office: 858-278-5240

