---
title: Islam
published: true
layout: page-layout
tags: ''
---

page 1: The Mercy of Allah (God)
## The Mercy of Allah (God)

"Limitless is your Lord in His mercy..." Qur'an 6:147

God Almighty is full of love and kindness to His creation. All blessings and goodness in this world and the next are clear proofs of His Mercy. Indeed, Islam teaches that God is more merciful toward us than our own mothers. How can it be otherwise, when some of God's names and attributes include:

- The Acceptor of Repentance  
- The Compassionate  
- The Loving  
- The Forbearing One  
- The Most Gracious  
- The Most Merciful  
- The Source of Goodness  
- The Most Generous  
- The Bestower

These names all indicate that God is characterised by mercy, goodness and generosity. They testify to the vastness and perfection of His Mercy, which He blesses all of His creation. This same creation is addressed by God, when He says, "O son of Adam, were you to come to Me with sins nearly as great as the earth and were you then to face Me, ascribing no partner to Me, I would bring you forgiveness nearly as great as the earth."

### Examples of Allah's Mercy & Blessings
"Then which of the Blessings of your Lord will you deny?" Qur'an 55:13

Throughout life, people continually receive Allah's blessings, be it good health, sight, hearing, nourishment, clean air, children, wealth and countless others. Some use their God-given gifts of intelligence and reasoning to acknowledge these blessings, grasp the purpose of their existence, and thereby submit themselves to Allah. Others, however, do not appreciate the Mercy of Allah toward their own selves, even though He feeds and sustains them despite their disobedience toward Him. They are given mobility, enjoyment, freedom of thought and action, despite their outright denial of Him. Their very existence would not be, were it not for the Mercy of Allah.

Ultimately, everyone has the free will to acknowledge their blessings, use them in a manner ordained by Allah (the Lord of mankind) and worship Him alone. Below, we have outlined a glimpse of such blessings, because “… if you were to try and count the favours of Allah, you could not enumerate them. Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.” Qur’an 16:18

### Guidance through Divine Scriptures & Prophets

“It is He Who has sent down the Book (the Qur’an) to you (Muhammad) with truth, confirming what came before it. And He sent down the Taurah and the Injeel (the original revelations revealed to Prophets Moses and Jesus respectively).” Qur’an 3:3

From the beginning of creation, man was not left to face the struggles of life alone. Due to God’s Mercy, man received revelation through Prophets, who conveyed and taught it to their people to guide and protect them. The most perfect and merciful of revelations was the Qur’an and the last of the prophets was Muhammad (peace be upon him).

The Qur’an – the final revelation – superseded and abrogated previous revelations, and is the ultimate mercy and guidance for mankind. Just as God sent Messengers in the past, He also sent mankind a living, practical example of how the Qur’an’s teachings of mercy and justice should be practically applied in our daily lives. This example was Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) – a mercy to mankind.

“And We (God) have not sent you (Muhammad) except as a mercy for mankind.” Qur’an 21:107

Following are just some of the Prophet’s sayings which are indicative of his mercy, kindness, tolerance and beautiful teachings:

“Kindness is not found in anything except that it adds to its beauty, and is not withdrawn from anything except that it makes it deficient.”  
“The most perfect of believers in belief is the best of them in character.”  
“He is not a perfect Muslim who eats his fill while his neighbour goes hungry.”  
“Allah will not show mercy to him who does not show mercy to others.”  
How desperately do we, as a society, and in these times, need such beautiful advice?

### Mercy Towards the Creation

The creation of human beings and all their faculties is a great mercy in itself. The fact that we can get out of bed, work, eat, play and sleep should make us grateful.  
“And out of His Mercy He made for you the night and the day that you may rest therein and by day seek from His Bounty and that perhaps you will be grateful.” Qur’an 28:73  
A spouse is one of the greatest of mercies, a means to tranquillity and affection.  
“And of His signs is that He created for you, from yourselves, mates that you may find tranquility in them; and He placed between you affection and mercy. Indeed in that are signs for a people who give thought.” Qur’an 30:21

Another mercy is the fact that He created us sinless and will not hold us to account until the age of maturity and decision making. This is in stark contrast to the “Original Sin” concept in Christianity.

Forgiveness of sins is another example of Allah’s Mercy, as Allah knows we are imperfect and commit mistakes. The fact that believers commit sins does not mean that we should lose hope of Allah’s Mercy or that we have exhausted Allah’s Forgiveness.

“O My servants who have transgressed against their souls! Do not despair of the Mercy of God: for God forgives all sins: for He is Oft-Forgiving, Most Merciful.” Qur’an 39:53  
Even animals are not exempt from Allah’s Mercy. They have faculties of hearing and sight, are provided with sustenance and offspring, and are granted many other blessings. Allah’s Mercy envelops them to the point that because of one single portion of Allah’s Mercy sent to earth, “…His creatures are merciful to each other, so that even the mare lifts up its hoof away from its baby animal, lest it should trample on it.”  
The Merciful Creator ensures that every creation is looked after – from the fish in the depths of the ocean, to the insects in the earth, and the birds in the skies – all are sustained by Him.

How to Increase Allah's Mercy Upon Us  
“Indeed, the mercy of Allah is near to the doers of good.” Qur’an 7:56

Due to God’s Mercy, He has promised to forgive and pardon whosoever follows the appropriate means as mentioned in the following verse:

“And surely, I am indeed forgiving to him who repents, believes (in My Oneness, and associates none in worship with Me) and does righteous good deeds, and then remains constant in doing them.” Qur’an 20:82  
Part and parcel of having the correct belief is believing and obeying the final Messenger, Muhammad (peace be upon him).

In short, the people who receive more of Allah’s Mercy are those who have acknowledged His blessings and favours; used them in a way which pleases God; spent their God-given wealth in charity and to look after the needy; employed their hands to care for orphans; utilised their gift of speech to speak good; and performed other honourable acts ordained by God.

The Prophet (peace be upon him) said: “Allah will show mercy to those who show mercy to people. Show mercy to those who are on earth – the One Who is in Heaven will show mercy to you.”

Below, are some ways to attain God’s Mercy.

“Obey Allah and the Messenger that you may obtain mercy.” Qur’an 3:132

By following the teachings of mercy and justice found in the Qur’an: “And this is a blessed Book We have revealed; therefore follow it and protect yourself (against evil), that mercy may be shown to you.” Qur’an 6:155  
“Keep up prayer and pay the compulsory charity (to the needy) and obey the Messenger, so that mercy may be shown to you.” Qur’an 24:56  
Sincerely asking for Mercy from God. “Our Lord! Make not our hearts to deviate after you have guided us aright, and grant us mercy from Yourself; surely You are The Bestower.” Qur’an 3:8

### Mercy & Accountability
Alongside Allah’s attribute of Mercy is His attribute of Justice.
“Verily, for the Righteous, are Gardens of Delight, in the Presence of their Lord. Shall We then treat the People of Faith like those who do not believe? What is the matter with you? How do you judge? ” Qur’an 68:34-36  
Allah is the Most-Merciful, however, He is also Swift in Reckoning. One cannot try to deceive Allah and take advantage of His Mercy by constantly committing the same sins without sincere repentance or resolving never to go back to the sin again.

“And of no effect is the repentance of those who continue to do evil deeds until death faces one of them and he says: ‘Now I repent;’ nor of those who die while they are disbelievers.” Qur’an 4:18  
Muslims are encouraged to have hope of reward for good deeds, while being concerned about sins they may perform. When they commit sins, they repent sincerely, and are hopeful of being forgiven.
And finally, they feel content with the words of their Creator, and keep it close to their heart:  
“Surely Allah is Most Gentle, Ever Compassionate to people.” Qur’an 22:65

page 2: Prophethood in Islam
##  Prophethood in Islam
Allah (God), the Creator of the universe and everything in it, created humans for a noble purpose: to worship Him alone and lead a virtuous life based on His teachings and guidance. However, one cannot fulfil this purpose without receiving clear guidelines from Allah. Allah, the Most Merciful and Just, did not leave us to wander the Earth aimlessly. In order to inform us of our purpose, Allah appointed certain individuals to communicate and demonstrate His message to all of mankind. These individuals are known as Prophets, which include Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus and Muhammad – may peace be upon them all.

### The Characteristics of Prophets
All Prophets have common characteristics which make them exceptional human beings.

### Prophets Receive Revelation
The main difference between an ordinary human being and a Prophet is that a Prophet receives revelation from Allah.

### Prohets Have Noble Character
Prophets never sought personal benefits such as wealth, high status or power – rather, they only sought the approval of God.

Prophets were the best examples amongst their people in character and righteousness. They lived in obedience to God, with excellent morals and were always truthful in speech and conduct. For this reason, Muslims reject totally the false attribution of major sins to the Prophets, as appears in some scriptures of other religions.

### Prophets Perform Miracles
Many Prophets performed miracles, usually in a field which their people excelled. For example, the people of Moses (peace be upon him) excelled in magic; therefore, Moses (peace be upon him) was able to perform miraculous acts which even magicians could not perform. The people of Jesus (peace be upon him) excelled in matters of medicine; therefore, Jesus (peace be upon him) was able to perform acts of healing beyond the skill of his own people. The people of Muhammad (peace be upon him) excelled in poetry; therefore, Muhammad (peace be upon him) delivered the Quran, containing such eloquent words which no poet could ever compete with. In addition, many Prophets conveyed truthful prophecies of future events. Such miracles were performed only with the permission and assistance of Allah, proving that they were human, and not divine.

Prophets are not Devine
While Prophets are chosen by Allah Almighty, they are in no way divine and should not be worshipped. Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) was commanded to say, “I am only a man like you. It has been revealed to me that your God is One God.” Quran 18:110

It is clear even from the Bible, both the Old and New Testaments, that the Prophets were not divine, and would worship and prostrate to the One True God.

“And he (Jesus) went a little farther, and fell on his face, and prayed…” Matthew 26:39

“And they (Moses and Aaron) fell upon their faces…” Numbers 16:22

“And Abram (i.e. Abraham) fell on his face: and God talked with him…” Genesis 17:3

Prophets Have Necessary Qualities
Allah gave all Prophets certain characteristics in order for them to successfully fulfil their mission, such as persistence, courage, leadership, patience and wisdom.

Some examples include:  
– The persistence of Noah (peace be upon him) in calling his people to Allah, even though very few accepted.  
– The courage of Abraham (peace be upon him) to single handedly confront his entire community regarding their false beliefs, while he was still very young.  
– The leadership of Moses (peace be upon him) in directing the escape of his people from the most oppressive tyrant of his time – Pharaoh.  
– The patience of Jesus (peace be upon him) in enduring the hardships and persecution imposed upon him by his people.
– The wisdom of Muhammad (peace be upon him) in uniting the many rival tribes of Arabia, who had a long history of conflict, into one peaceful community.

– The Message of the Prophetsvv
“And certainly We sent to every nation a Messenger (saying):  ‘Worship Allah and avoid false gods.’ “Quran 16:36  
Since all Prophets were sent by the One True God, they all conveyed the same message and had the same mission – to remind and educate their people of the purpose of life.

Their message was to:  
– Clarify the true concept of God and reject false beliefs  
– Teach the true purpose of life  
– Demonstrate how Allah should be worshipped  
– Convey Allah’s definition of righteous and sinful conduct, and advise people accordingly  
– Describe the rewards for obedience (Heaven) and warn of the punishment for disobedience (Hell)  
– Explain commonly misunderstood issues such as the soul, angels and spirits, the afterlife and fate  

“And We sent not a Messenger except with the language of his people, in order that he might make (the Message) clear for them…”Quran 14:4
– The main focus of all the Prophets was to clarify the concept of God: that He has no partners or equals, and that all worship should be directed exclusively toward Him. In the Quran, there are numerous examples of Prophets proclaiming this message:

Noah (peace be upon him) said [Quran 7:59],

“O my people! Worship Allah! You have no other gods besides Him.”

Abraham (peace be upon him) said [Quran 21:66],

“Do you worship besides Allah, things that can neither bring you benefit nor cause you harm?”

Moses (peace be upon him) said [Quran 7:140],

“What! Shall I seek for you a god other than Allah even though He has made you excel (all) created things?”

Jesus (peace be upon him) said [Quran 3:51],

“Indeed Allah is my Lord and your Lord: so worship Him (alone): this is the Straight Way.”

Muhammad (peace be upon him) said [Quran 18:110],

“It has been revealed to me that your God is One God. So whoever expects to meet his Lord then let him do good deeds and associate none as a partner in the worship of his Lord.”

This message was consistent throughout the generations, and highlights the importance of having the correct belief in God.

Every Nation was Sent a Prophet
“And for every nation there is a messenger.”Quran 10:47
Muslims believe that thousands of Prophets were sent periodically by Allah, at least one to every nation, as a mercy to mankind for their guidance. In certain circumstances, the message of the Prophets was lost, corrupted, forgotten, neglected, or denied by the people. These were some of the reasons why a new Prophet would be sent to re-convey Allah’s message.

Muslims believe in and respect every Prophet sent by God. Muslims also believe in all of the divine books which were revealed to the Prophets, mindful of the fact that none of these books exist today in their original form, aside from the Quran. “It is He (Allah) Who has sent down the Book (the Quran) to you (Muhammad) with truth, confirming what came before it. And He sent down the Torah and the Gospel.” Quran 3:3

Why Doesn’t Everyone Receive Direct Revelation?
Allah created life and gave humans free will and intellect, as a test to see who will willingly follow His path and who will deviate. If every person received direct revelation, life would not be a true test of faith. The real test of one’s faith is in using one’s intellect and reason to contemplate and recognise God’s signs, rather than being spoken to directly by God, which would not require any effort, and would render belief meaningless.

Although Prophets received direct revelation, this did not exempt them from life’s tests, as Prophethood brings with it many difficulties and trials.

The Final Prophet
Prophets were sent to specific groups of people, and over time, the messages with which they came were lost or corrupted. However, Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) was not sent to a specific people, but to mankind as a whole, and his message has been preserved both in the form of the Quran and the Sunnah. Since the Quran and Sunnah are preserved and easily accessible, there is no need for another Prophet.

The Quran is the spoken word of Allah, and is free of any corruption, errors or contradictions. It is a book of “guidance for mankind… and the distinction (between right and wrong).” Quran 2:185
The Sunnah is a collection of the sayings and actions of Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him), as recorded by his companions and their students. The fact that there are thousands of these recorded and rigorously authenticated makes it very easy for anyone to follow Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) correctly.
The message of Prophet Muhammad is in complete harmony with the teachings of the previous Prophets, and reaffirms their message.

Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) is the final Prophet for all mankind from his time up until the end of time, including current and future generations. He was a perfect example of an honest, just, merciful, compassionate, truthful and brave human being. He, like other Prophets before him, did not have any evil characteristics and strove solely for the sake of Allah.

Conclusion
“Indeed in the Messenger of Allah [Prophet Muhammad] you have an excellent example to follow for whoever hopes in (the meeting with) Allah and the Last Day, and remembers Allah much.”Quran 33:21
Prophets were sent as a mercy by Allah, to convey His message and to teach people how to live a righteous life. They have the best of characteristics and are to be followed and obeyed. Following a Prophet is obedience to God and rejecting a Prophet is disobedience to God. Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon him) is the last of the Prophets, so God’s guidance was complete with his coming, and our salvation is complete with the obedience to God and His Final Prophet.