---
layout: collection-with-sidebar-layout
collection_name: islam
published: false
title: Who is Prophet Mohammed?
---
## Who is Prophet Mohammed?
Prophet Mohammed Peace Be upon Him (PBUH) is the seal of all prophets from God. He was born in the city of Mecca, where he grew up until he was 40 years of age. God Almighty, through Arch Angel Gabriel, entrusted him with the message of Islam. Before he became a prophet he was nicknamed as the Truthful, the Trustworthy, and known as the go to person when someone wanted to entrust something valuable when they are away. He also was known for his wisdom and when disputes happened he would be the one to resolve them. Unlike young people in his generation he never drank alcohol nor associated with women outside of marriage and his kind and gentle character was known to everyone.

Like all prophets before him, when he received the message of prophethood he was persecuted and attacked by his people and had to leave the city of his birth Mecca with his followers to a city in the North who accepted him and his message to establish Islam. The city of Medina became the birth of Islam and the first Muslim community. The revelations to him were conveyed from God by Angle Gabriel and he would recite the verses of the Quran to his followers who would memorize and write them. He set up the moral and social principles for Muslims through his teaching, either through action, speech, or behavior to become what is known as the Sunna of the Prophet (the way or path). The Sunnah was documented and is considered as the second authentic source of Islamic teaching after the Quran. His teachings are not the word of God but rather complementing and explaining the word of God and setting the social, political, economic, and juristic context that Muslims may follow, which is known as Sharia.