---
layout: collection-with-sidebar-layout
collection-name: annoucements
published: true
title: 05/04 Announcements
---
## Commemoration of the 70 years of NAKBA
Saturday, May 12, a coalition of organizations supporting the Palestinian cause invites you to attend a dinner event, "Standing Up For The Future: The Struggle For Palestine Continues! Dinner will be served at 5pm and the program begins at 6pm. It will be held at Balboa Park, at the Recital Hall. Purchase tickets at www.purplepass.com/alnakba. For more info: info@karamanow.org.

## Meet Aftab Diwan
Saturday, May 12 at Lindberg Park between 1-4pm  
Sunday, May 13 at ICSD Multipurpose Room between 1:30-5:30pm

## Ramadan Volunteers Needed!
Please sign up in the office.  
Men's Duties: Crossing Guard, Usher, Indoor Security, Monitors, Iftar Setup, Cleanup, etc.
Women's Duties: Indoor Security, Usher (women's area), Monitors, Children's Activities, etc.

## Ramadan
The first day of **Ramadan is May 16, 2018**. Please attend the first **Taraweeh prayers on May 15th, after Isha**. Pick up your Ramadan Calendar

## Register to Vote! 
Pre-register if you’re 16 or older. Re-register if you moved last year. Let your opinion be heard. **It is your Right**

## Crosswalk
Please cross at the crosswalk for your own safety. **It is the Law**

## Parking
Do not park at Lindbergh/Switzer.  
Do not block our neighbors' driveways.  
You may park at the Lutheran Church next door.  
**No Excuses** **No Exceptions**

## Helping Others
Business owners who have available jobs that can be filled by refugees, please leave your contact information in the office. **JzkAllah khair**
